Learning Haskell has been mind-expanding. I haven't yet written
practical programs in it, but I feel I am thinking more clearly
when writing _any_ program.

For instance, take a common ActiveRecord method, `find_or_create_by...`.
Say that with an email address I need a user record. If it's already
in the database, give me that one, if not, create one. Here's my
quick implementation:

    def find_or_create_by_email email
      where(email: email).first || create!(email: email)
    end

Simple enough. But something bugs me about `first` returning nil if no
records are found. The method as whole goes something like: `(expr that
might be nil) or (expr)`. The second expression is an added failsafe, a
catch for nils, but it's basically unrelated to the first expression.
It seems a bit loose. Why isn't the idea of catching a nil encapsulated
in the first expression?

In Haskell, you might write something like:

    findOrCreateByEmail :: String -> User
    findOrCreateByEmail email = getOrCreate $ whereEmail email
      where
        getOrCreate (x:xs) = x
        getOrCreate []     = createUserWithEmail email

The important thing to note is that if you leave off the second `getOrCreate`
pattern, the one that returns a value for an empty list, the compiler knows
that the function doesn't catch all possibilities and will throw a warning.

I'm trying to switch to `Array#fetch` and `Hash#fetch` as much as I can,
because it _forces_ me (the programmer) to consider all of the possibilities
of accessing the data. Rewriting the original method:

    where(email: email).fetch(0) { create!(email: email) }

It's arguable which version is more readable.
